---
tags: [Tenant Account]
---

# Tenant Fundamentals

A **Tenant** is an individual Counterbalance platform account. 

A new tenant is created when an organization or individual creates a relationship with Counterbalance through the account signup process or by having an account created on their behalf.

Each tenant account is assigned a unique **Tenant ID**.

### Tenant Primary Contact

blah blah I need to fill this section in 

## Account Confirmation

Every new tenant must be confirmed before it can be used. During account creation, a six-digit code is emailed to the new user. This code must be entered by the user who created the account via the [Confirm a Tenant Account](../../reference/Tenant.v1.yaml/paths/~1v1~1tenant~1confirm/post) endpoint.

<!-- theme: info -->

> ###### _Note_
>
> _The account confirmation code cannot be retrieved later. The user must contact support if they do not receive the confirmation email._

<!-- theme: danger -->

> ###### _Danger_
>
> _The account confirmation code cannot be retrieved later. The user must contact support if they do not receive the confirmation email._

<!-- theme: warning -->

> ###### _Warning_
>
> _Unconfirmed accounts are deleted after 72 hours_

## Closing & Deleting a Tenant Account

A Counterbalance account can be closed at any time using the Delete Tenant Account endpoint. 

There are two options for deleting

<!-- theme: warning -->

> _**Note** Any billing accounts associated with the tenant account must be closed prior to account deletion. _

### Self-Service Account Deletion

The user-initiated deletion process using the DELETE endpoint provides a seven day grace period before the account data is deleted permanently. 

The tenant's primary contact will receive two email reminders at 72 hours and 24 hours before an account data is permanently deleted.

A final email will be sent to the primary contact after the deletion has been processed and all data has been permanently removed. 

### Re-Activating a Deleted Account

A deleted account can be reactivated at any point during the deletion grace period using the Reactivate a Tenant Account endpoint. Once a tenant account has been permanently deleted it can no longer be reactivated and all data is lost. 

### Immediate Data Removal

An immediate account deletion can be carried out by contacting [Counterbalance Support](../Help-and-Support.md). The support representative will ask for the Deletion PIN which must be generated by the tenant owner via the [Set Deletion PIN](../../reference/Tenant.v1.yaml/paths/~1v1~1tenant~1deletion-pin/post) endpoint.

For security purposes, it is not possible to delete an account without first generating a deletion PIN. 
